Welcome to Baria Temple International Church's Podcast.
I am your host Timothy, and we're here together on this beautiful day to hear from God.
Today, we're fortunate to have our beloved pastor, Michael Gonzalez, with us who will be sharing God's word.
So let's all prepare ourselves to receive what God has in store for us today.
Let's begin.
So that being said, I need to do something a little bit different.
I need a couple of ushers to come, if you would.
On the front row, there's a great big stack of paper.
And I need each person to take one sheet of paper.
So ushers, if you don't mind, to pass those out while I'm preaching, I'm just going to let you take care of that while we go.
But just hold on to it.
It'll be for later in the service.
But ushers, if you'll take care of that now, I would greatly appreciate it.
So again, we have been exploring in our series, in our messages.
We have been working on our series called We Are.
And we are AG, I'm gonna get through this real quick, because we have covered this lots.
We are AG church members.
We are AG church members who offer hope and healing in our community.
And we're dialing this down.
This is still part of the hope and healing.
But we're going to tile it down to something a bit more specific for this sub-series is we want to be a church that understands what it is to be the body of Christ.
What it is to be a church that offers hope and healing and ultimately by being good neighbors.
Knowing how to exist as Christians in a lost and dying world.
How to be a Christian in a foreign land.
We are
Okay, if any of you are not aware, we had two last weekend, Petra, the Christian rock band was here in concert at Berea Temple.
One of their songs is called, Not of This World.
It's the first song that I, that's what made me fall in love with them.
And one of the lines in that song is, we are strangers.
We are not of this world.
We are strangers in a foreign land.
And that is who we are.
And so that's why we're covering this series today, that we are good neighbors in a foreign land talking to foreign people who know nothing of our Jesus.
And so I have a question I want to start out with is how many times we found ourselves talking about love?
We do it almost every February in some form or fashion.
We talk about Jesus' love.
We talk about the love of God, the love of the Father, the love of the Holy Spirit.
We talk about loving our spouses.
We talk about all kinds of love.
We preach about it.
We even post on social media about it.
Oh, what a cute little puppy.
Here's a picture of my baby.
I love tacos.
Amen, right?
Okay.
So whatever it is we'd like to talk about love.
And love is a central theme to our faith when it comes to practicing love in our everyday lives, especially towards those living closest to us.
We very often fall short.
It's easy to love our friends.
It's easy to love those that we choose to be around.
And it's sometimes even easy to love strangers we meet during outreach events.
We hear their story and we go, oh, let me tell you about Jesus.
And that's nice.
That's wonderful.
It makes us feel good because we've made a personal connection.
But what about people who live right next door?
The people we share a wall if you live in an apartment or if you live in a duplex.
The people that we share a fence with if you live in a house or even just
If you don't have a fence, you share the block with this circle, square, rectangle, whatever shape yours is, block of ground, and we call them our neighbors.
Did you know that research shows that over 30% of people don't know their neighbors?
They don't know their neighbors' names.
They don't know anything about them.
And it's 30% in urban and suburban areas, and the number increases in rural areas just simply due to distance and fewer community building opportunities.
However, here in St. Louis, we have a great opportunity to know our neighbors.
There's always an event happening all the time, whether it's a farmer's market, it's a craft fair, a cultural fair, block parties, whatever the list goes on.
And in St. Louis, we have the beautifully unique makeup of our city where we have neighborhoods.
We are in Compton Heights.
Some of you live in Shaw or some other neighborhood that has a name and there is a community identity built around it.
Some of them are good, some of them are less than good.
We'll leave it at that.
But each one of us is part of a community that we get to call our neighbors.
See, we have the opportunity in St. Louis to live.
A lot of our houses are very close together.
Matter of fact, some of our houses, we couldn't get a slip of paper between them, but there is a gap.
I was driving down one street one day and I happened to catch light between two of the buildings and I went, oh, they're not physically connected, but there's probably no more than an inch gap between those two buildings.
And we have the opportunity to not be a statistic.
tell you a story.
There was a pastor named Mark who wanted to reach his local community in some kind of meaningful way.
And he organized a huge church event, a family fun day with games, food, live music.
Mark and his ministry team worked tirelessly advertising it throughout town, sending out flyers, spreading the word on social media.
And on the day of the event, they set up everything perfectly.
Couldn't have been a better day.
The weather was wonderful.
The sun was shining.
The food was all hot and ready to go.
The games were put in place.
But as the hours passed, only a handful of people showed up.
Pastor Mark was disappointed.
Later that day, he was driving home and he was feeling disappointed.
He passed by a local park and saw the park was packed with families.
kids playing, parents chatting, and people enjoying the beautiful afternoon together.
And that's when it hit him.
While he had been focused on drawing people to his church event, the community was already gathering regularly at the park.
And he realized that instead of trying to bring people into the church, maybe he should take the church to where the people already are.
It's just an illustration, it's just a, I would likely guess a made up story.
But it's one that reminds us that sometimes we work hard on big plans, big events, hoping to draw people in and show Christ's love, but we simply miss the opportunities that are right in front of us.
The people we want to reach are often already gathering in our communities.
We just need to notice them and meet them where they are.
Notice the word meet.
It doesn't say invade.
So it doesn't mean we gather as a church and we march over here to the park and start shoving tracks in people's faces, pounding our Bibles.
It says we meet them where they are.
What do I mean by that?
So I was asked when I very first got here, I was asked about evangelism.
And we've been, we've done some of those big outreaches, and we've done some of those medium-sized outreaches, and we've had it where only a few people showed up, but guess what?
We met neighbors, that's a good thing.
But I am a proponent of lifestyle evangelism.
What do I mean by that?
They will know you are Christians by your love, one for another.
They will know that you are my disciples.
How?
But how we interact with each other.
The fruits of the Spirit operating in us is the greatest form of evangelism that we can have.
So coming to church on Sunday and you listen, you hear me harp on this all the time.
Coming to church on Sunday, but going to the bar on Saturday, not lifestyle evangelism.
Coming to church on Sunday and standing up on the platform, I know nothing about anybody that's up here, so I'm not picking on anybody.
But standing up on the platform, but doing something that's ungodly during the week, something that is not in line with your faith, not evangelism.
We're doing one of two things throughout the week.
We're either drawing people closer to Christ through our lives or repelling people farther away.
When they look at our lives, they either say, I want to be more like that.
I want to be more like that Jesus.
Or they say, I want nothing to do with that.
They're fake, they're mean, they're rude, they're crude, they, whatever it may be.
We need to meet people where they are and we need to let our light show shine before men that they know we are His disciples.
See our efforts to show love and to be impactful in our events, to host community outreaches, to spread the gospel.
These are all wonderful, but sometimes we overlook the obvious places where we can connect with other places.
There are God places in our neighborhoods.
Notice I said God not good.
There are God places in our neighborhoods, parks, the daily routines of life, but we're not paying attention and we might miss those chances to share love in a real and meaningful way.
Starbucks.
I've already told you the story about me being called the Bible guy on the bus when I had to read for college.
And it was just simply, I did nothing specifically outreach driven, but I had my Bible because I had an assignment and I was dumb enough to take New Testament, survey and Old Testament survey in the same semester.
And I had to read the entire Bible in about 90 days.
And so what did I do?
I had, I worked clear across town and I rode the bus back and forth.
Well, I was reading, reading, reading people took notice.
That's just my life, lifestyle.
How can we put that kind because we're missing the opportunities when we don't?
If everything is always a scripted challenge, then we might be missing the regular divine appointments that God has placed in front of us.
And while big outreaches and big events and all of those things are wonderful, they can't substitute the day-to-day relationship that Jesus calls us to have with His people.
Look at Luke chapter 16 and verse 10.
It says, if you're faithful in little things, you'll be faithful in large ones.
But if you're dishonest in little things, you won't be honest with greater responsibilities.
How do we apply that to evangelism?
Simple.
God says, look, go down.
If you're a Starbucks person, I won't judge you.
Yes, I'm going to judge you, but it's okay.
If you're a Starbucks person, go down and sit and have your morning coffee.
Look for divine opportunities, divine appointments.
Have conversations, the same person sitting in the same seat every day.
Take an opportunity to reach out or to strike up a conversation.
And the way this passage applies is if you're not willing to have just a basic old normal, and again, I'm out of home, hey brother, do you know Jesus?
But simply, hey, how are you?
I noticed you were in here every day this last week, everything going okay, or their head is down and normally they're clacking away right in their next great novel, right?
Because that's what everybody at Starbucks is doing.
And all of a sudden they come in and their laptop is closed,
Their head is down.
Hey, I see you in here all the time.
You look way different today than you did yesterday and the other days, are you okay?
Well, you know, I'm really going through, but guess what?
Window open.
Conversation can happen.
That's the small things.
That's the regular everyday things that God wants us to be doing.
It's great to come to church and say, we're having an outreach and I'm gonna be the prayer tent person or I'm gonna be the guest check-in person or I'm gonna be the hot dog person.
Those are all wonderful.
What about the little ones?
What about the little things?
Today I wanna challenge us to take the great commandment
Seriously, we talked about this last time last week of a great commandment versus the great commission.
And I want us to take it seriously, not just as a spiritual ideology, but as a practical everyday personal, say the word personal, personal mission.
Jesus told us to love our neighbors as ourselves and that commandment was meant to be taken literally.
What would happen if we stopped
thinking of neighbor as a metaphor, as a construct for anyone and everyone in need.
So the guy down begging at the corner over here or the homeless camp or whatever it may be.
But we started thinking about it as a literal person living next door.
The actual person that lives in the house, the apartment, the duplex next door to you.
How would our lives change and how would our communities change if you, as the center of your little circle of houses, took loving your neighbor the great commandments seriously and became an embassy for heaven in your neighborhood.
And you became an ambassador for the greatest king that has ever been known.
And you begin to be his mouthpiece in your neighborhood.
So today, if you're a note taker, our sermon title today is taking the great commandment seriously.
We're going to break down three key areas where we can live out the commandments more effectively.
First, we need to understand who our neighbors are, not just in theory, but in reality.
Second, we need to confront and overcome the barriers that keep us from loving them as we should.
And finally, we'll look at how to move from talking about love to actually practicing it in everyday lives.
But I want us to look first at what Jesus' words are in Matthew 22, verses 37 to 40.
Matthew 22, verses 37 to 40.
This is what it says, it says, Jesus replied, you must love you the Lord your God with all of your heart, all your soul and all of your mind.
This is the first and greatest commandment.
The second is equally important.
Love your neighbor as yourself.
The entire law and all the demands of the prophets are based on these two commandments.
This is the great commandment.
So now I want us to dig in with this.
This is kind of our foundation.
Again, this is probably going to be a bulk of our foundation when we talk about being good neighbors.
First thing is that we are called to love our literal neighbors.
Mark,
Chapter 12 and verse 30 and 31 is basically a restatement of the Matthew passage, the great commandment.
So this is how Mark says it and he says, and you must love the Lord your God with all of your heart, all of your soul, all of your mind and all of your strength.
The second is equally important.
Love your neighbor as yourself.
No other commandment is greater than these.
See, when Jesus gave us the great commandment, He didn't just give us an idea to contemplate.
Again, it's not ethereal.
He gave us a practical command to live out.
When He says, love your neighbor as yourself, He's calling us to a deep personal investment.
The word neighbor isn't just a metaphor for people in general.
It literally means the person living next to you, the one whose home is closest to yours.
But how do we
actually think about our neighbors this way.
How often do we go beyond a hey neighbor or a nod?
How often do we take time to genuinely know and love the people in our immediate vicinity?
Because again, it's not an ethereal ideology.
It is a literal command to love your neighbors.
So let's go a little deeper.
I want to go back to the story that we discussed in the introduction about the Pastor Mark and planning the big family day.
Despite all of the preparation and effort, only a few people showed up.
But right down the street, the local park was packed.
What was the difference?
The people were already gathering in a place where they felt connected and where they felt known.
This is key.
This is a reminder that when it comes to loving our neighbors, if we want them to come to our events at our church, if we want them to come to our worship services, then we may miss the opportunities of the people that are right next door if we're trying to wait for them to come.
There used to be a day back a couple of decades ago, the phrase, anybody remember the movie Field of Dreams?
I know I'm dating myself a little bit.
Kevin Costner, amen.
Thank you sister for not leaving me out by myself.
He felt like he was told to build this baseball field.
And the voice told him, if you build it, they will come.
Because it was out in the middle of a corn field.
Who's gonna come out in the middle of a corn field to watch a ball game?
And in the story, he built it and they came.
That's not church, okay?
There used to be a day when the church was like that.
You would build the building, you'd put the sign out, people would come and worship.
Because by and large, the mindset was you go to church on Sunday, even if you were at the bar on Saturday.
Kind of didn't really matter.
Everybody was a little bit biblically literate.
Everybody was a little bit understanding of Christian terms and terminology.
But if you built it, people would come.
That's not the case today.
Again, we talk a lot about this, but people don't care how much you know until they know how much you care.
They want to know that you know their name.
You're not just trying to fill the pew.
You're not just trying to get somebody to come in so you can check it off your little church attendance box so that at the end of the year you get best volunteer at church award.
They want to know that you're asking them because you care about them as an individual, as a person.
A survey found that 30% of Americans don't know any of their neighbors and only 20% of people actually spend time regularly with those in their actual neighborhood.
So how do we put this into practice?
Loving our neighbor means more than just hoping that they'll show up at our church events, our worship services or whatever our next outreach program is.
It means that meeting them where they are
in their homes, in their everyday lives.
This is where small groups comes in, friends.
You go, well, how do we do outreach?
Invite your neighbors over, say, hey, listen, I know you probably won't come to church, but would you come over to my house on Thursday night for coffee?
And we do this kind of this little Bible study thing.
We watch a video.
And we have videos for you to watch.
I don't know if you know that or not.
Okay, we have videos that you can use in your homes to show.
All you have to do is call and ask, and I'll be happy to get you connected to them.
But hey, would you come over and do a little Bible set?
Well, okay, I mean, I guess that'd be all right.
I don't wanna go to church.
Yeah, we're not going to church.
And all of a sudden, you've got two or three people come into your house, and they're coming every Thursday night, and guess what?
You're doing evangelism.
And now you've got a small group and you're discipling people who've still not yet stepped foot in to bury a temple yet.
Keyword yet, because if you were discipling them and discipling them well, that would be a next logical step.
How many of us can honestly say we know more than just the names of the people who live closest to us?
Do we know their struggles?
Do we know their hopes, their dreams, their fears?
Have we let them know ours?
Do they know our story, our background?
Do they know that we're a Christian?
I don't know, do you put a Christian flag out on your front porch or do you put a cross in your yard or is it just, you know, happy Easter or Jesus is alive at Easter or whatever it may be?
Again, our story, our sermon today,
Our series is loosely based on the book called The Art of Neighboring, and I've got a few little quotes to kind of share with it throughout it.
One of them, it says this.
It says, it's important for us to think about how we can go to the places where they, the people, our neighbors already are.
It's a simple but profound insight.
It causes us to rethink our approach to outreach and evangelism.
Instead of always asking our neighbors to come with us, maybe, just maybe we should be going with them into their spaces and into their lives.
Because sometimes that means going into places we don't particularly like.
I have a pastor friend of mine and this is just kind of off the side a little bit.
I have a pastor friend of mine that regularly goes with people to the bar.
They're not Christians.
He's not expecting a
a non-Christian to act like a Christian.
He doesn't drink, he orders a soda, but it gives him a chance to just talk.
And he has reached more men that have now attended his church that way than ever holding an outreach event or anything out in the community, or here at the church building, sorry.
Because he's willing to go to the places that we don't normally like to go to.
He's willing to get down and dirty and into the mess
See, when we talk about loving our neighbor, it's about meeting them where they are.
It's about being what we need to be to them, not asking them to be something for us.
Because there's a danger in neglecting our neighbor.
There's a danger in leaving them out or ignoring them and only being in our little circle of church people and church life.
1 Peter 4.8 tells us that most of important of all continue to show deep love for each other, for love covers a multitude of sins.
So of course, again, when we talk about loving our literal neighbors, there's our passage.
When we talk about loving our literal neighbors,
That's easy to say, but of course it begs the question, who is my neighbor?
We spoke last week about the Good Samaritan and the parable of what that is.
I want you to think back again, because this is a response to a lawyer's question.
A lawyer is asking Jesus this question of who is my neighbor.
And this is Jesus' response.
He says, a man is traveling from Jerusalem to Jericho.
a dangerous road known for bandits.
He's attacked, robbed, and left for dead on the side of the road.
Two religious leaders, a priest, and a Levite both see him, but choose to pass on the other side.
These were men who, by their positions, were expected to know and follow the commandments.
Yet they failed to act when confronted with a clear opportunity to love their neighbor.
And again, as we spoke before, we often find ourselves in very similar position.
We encounter people in need.
We might even justify our inaction by thinking, well, they're not my responsibility.
Somebody else will help them.
But Jesus is parable, tells us that our neighbor is not defined by proximity, race, or social standing.
Our neighbor is anyone in need of whom God places in our path.
So our neighbor is both the person literally next door
and the people that are farther away, the people that God places in our path.
Again, in the book, The Art of Neighboring, they say this, it says, the man, the lawyer from our passage, wanted to define this word neighbor in such a way that he could not be found blameworthy.
Isn't that like most of us?
Lord, I want you to define something for me.
I need you to explain something because what we're not really looking for the explanation, what we're really looking for is where are the lines and how close to the line can I get without falling off, without crossing it, so that I can still say I didn't actually do it.
And the lawyer's looking for that.
He's looking for the line, how he can
be blameless, but still basically ignore the people that Jesus is trying to get us to care for.
See, for most of us, we need to expand our borders and push past our comfort zones.
And while it might be easy to redefine neighbors that we like and love, but what about loving neighbors that we dislike?
See, the parable that Jesus tells goes on to describe the hero of the story as Samaritan.
For Jesus' Jewish audience, this would have been a shocking tale.
Samaritans were despised by the Jews.
There was deep-seated animosity between these two groups, yet it was the Samaritan, not the religious leaders who showed compassion.
He stopped, he tended to the man's wounds, and he ensured he was cared for until he recovered.
The Samaritan's actions went on beyond basic help.
He showed sacrificial love.
See, this kind of points for us to love the people that we might naturally avoid or to love the people that maybe even
harbor animosity towards us or that we might be harboring animosity toward.
Maybe there's somebody in your life who's hurt you.
Maybe you find it difficult to love.
It could be a co-worker, a family member, or even a neighbor with whom you've had some kind of disagreement.
Jesus calls us to love even those people to cross cultural and personal boundaries
Just like the Samaritan did.
This is a practical application for us.
See, Jesus' point was that the Samaritan was actually the true neighbor.
It wasn't the people going, look at me, look how holy I am, look how righteous I am, look at all the things that I do for God.
Look at how wonderful I give my penance every Sunday at church and I put it in the box for the homeless or the needy.
Look at all these great things that I do.
It wasn't those people.
It was the Samaritan who actually put it into action.
And this kind of flips our understanding of what love is on its head.
Sorry, get me through these.
I think I missed my, no, here we go.
Matthew 5, 43, and 44 says, you've heard the loss that says, love your neighbor and hate your enemy, but I say love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you.
So what is our function?
For the people that we might not like,
For the people that might scare us, I reference often because in our American society, they've kind of demonized these guys a lot.
It's the big burly biker guys.
When most of them are about as sweet and nice as a teddy bear that you could ever meet, good-hearted American loving guys, they just have lots of tattoos and their muscles are bigger than my head.
But the reality is, we've kind of demonized them.
We've made shows like Sons of Anarchy, and we've made shows like, well, there's all kinds of them out there, and they always play the big, tough, bad guy.
But the reality is,
We can love those guys just as well as we can love the businessman who's in a shirt and tie and is, you know, is well-spoken and eloquent and able to act and treat as nice and great as it could be.
We're called to love whomever to act on that love.
Third thing, there we go.
when we talk about loving our neighbor, when we talk about putting the great commandment into action, being serious about it, is moving the great commandment from theory to practice.
And how do we do that?
Again, this is kind of a rubber meets the road kind of a message.
James chapter two and verse 14 through 17 says, what good is it, dear brothers and sisters, if you say you have faith, but don't show it by your actions.
Can this kind of faith save anyone?
Suppose you see a brother or a sister who has no food or clothing, and you say, goodbye, have a good day, stay warm, and eat well.
But then you don't give that person any food or clothing.
What good does that do?
So you see, by faith, by itself isn't enough.
Unless it produces good deeds, it's dead and useless.
Now we could spend a whole nother message breaking down to just this passage and breaking down exactly what it means.
But the point is this.
Jesus gives us a great commandment to love the Lord with all of our heart, soul and strength and to love our neighbor as ourselves.
James makes it clear when he says faith without deeds is dead.
Our love for our neighbor can't remain in the realm of good intentions or just theoretical discussions.
It has to be expressed through concrete action.
So you remember we passed out the little slips of paper.
Does everybody have one?
Everybody have wave your paper in the air because we really do care.
Thank you.
Okay.
I want you to start thinking about your own personal neighborhood and the people that live around you.
It's not just enough to believe we have to act on it.
So in the art of neighboring, the authors propose an exercise to bring the great commandment into our real world.
They call it the chart of shame and it's simple
yet it is a convicting activity.
And so we're gonna do it today.
I want you to take your slip of paper and I want you to draw a tic-tac-toe board on it.
Do you know what I'm talking about?
If you're young enough, they call it a hashtag.
Or if you're a little on the older side and you remember the old phone, they call it the pound sign.
It's line, line, line,
line, you should have nine boxes.
Okay, the X's and O's game.
So if you have a pen or a pencil, make that symbol on your paper.
It's just a tic-tac-toe board or a hashtag or a pound sign, whichever generation you identify with best.
There should be some pens and pencils in your pews, hopefully, if they've not all disappeared.
In the middle box, there should be one box that's in the center.
I want you to write home.
That represents your house where you physically live.
And here's the challenge that I have for you.
It's to fill in three pieces of information for each of the eight homes, the boxes around the edge,
Fill in three pieces of relevant information about the people that live in those boxes.
Something deeper like their hopes, their fears, their spiritual beliefs, something.
Write their name and something about that neighbor.
Go ahead, I'll wait.
Something you know about three pieces though in every box, not just three little things individually.
One right above you is the person who lives across the street from you.
Their name and three pieces of information about them.
The one next to it is the person who lives across the street catty corner from you.
The one below is the person who lives behind you.
Write their name and three pieces of information about that person in as many of the boxes as you can.
So I see a few people looking up, quite a few still.
It's not as easy as it seems, right?
So why do they call this exercise the chart of shame?
Well, because most people when they attempt this, find out that they know very little about their neighbors.
In fact, only about 10% of people can fill out all three pieces of information for even one of their neighbors.
and doing this little exercise exposes the gap between our intentions to love our neighbors and our actual engagement with them.
If I had to guess, every one of you in here are Christians.
Every one of you says that you have the love of Jesus, and guess what?
I believe that.
Every one of us, I believe, intends to love our neighbor as ourselves.
Why?
Because Jesus asks us to.
That is our heart.
I believe every person within the sound of my voice
truly wants to fulfill the great commandment and the great commission.
But there is a gap between the desire to do it and the practical everyday action of actually doing it.
See, if we don't take Jesus' command literally, then we turn the great commandment into nothing more than a metaphor.
It's just an ideology.
It's a cute story.
We talked last week about overcoming some of the obstacles, busyness.
We talked about things like busy schedules or the fences that are between our houses, the walls that literally stand between us.
There's also the things like fear and distrust or simply the discomfort of stepping out of our comfort zone.
For some of us who are introverts, it's not really natural for us to just jump out and talk to somebody.
We've got to move in the great commandment.
We've got to move it from theory to practice.
Romans 12 and verse 10 says, love each other with genuine affection.
Take delight in honoring each other.
70% of people say they'd like to know their neighbors better, but most cite busyness as their primary obstacle.
There's all kinds of things that stand in the way.
There's all kinds of things that are getting in the way of us trying to know who our neighbor is.
And how do we become a good neighbor?
How do we become a church that offers hope and healing to our community, to our neighborhood by being a good neighbor?
How do we become that if we don't even know our neighbors?
How do we become an instrument
a catalyst, an ambassador for the King of Kings, if we don't even know the people that he sent us to serve.
So as we close this morning, I want us to commit to moving from intention to action, from theory to practice, and from good ideas,
to a real impact in our neighborhoods.
If you want to see Berea Temple full, meet your neighbors.
If you want to see the church filled with people, we have to get out of our homes because they're not just going to come.
We're in a day and age, unfortunately.
They're not just going to show up.
We as individuals have to get outside the four walls of our homes, outside the four walls of our church, and get out into the marketplace.
So how do we respond to a message like this?
Because this is more of a practical action type of a sermon.
See, the truth is it's not just about gaining the knowledge of how to be a good neighbor, but it's about the transformation that needs to happen in every one of our hearts, mine included.
It's about allowing the love of God to flow through us into the lives of those around us.
Listen, your neighbors might scare you.
Your neighbors might be your best friend.
But we have an obligation to love them.
Because it's not going to happen by accident.
It requires intentionality, effort, and willingness to step out of our comfort zones.
Take the slip of paper that you had.
Worship team, I know you don't have them.
It's OK. Just hold on to it for a moment.
You don't have to hold it up.
But just hold on to that slip of paper.
It might have some neighbor's names on it.
It might not.
But I want to challenge each of us to take one concrete step this week to fill in those boxes.
Maybe it's just getting to know one of those neighbors.
Maybe it's making a plan to connect with a neighbor you don't know very well, or maybe it's reaching out to a neighbor that you've had a strained relationship with, and offering an olive branch.
Or maybe it's simply being more present in your neighborhood, taking walks, starting conversation, being available to those who might need a listening ear or a helping hand.
Galatians chapter 5 and verse 14 says, for the whole law can be summed up in this one command.
Love your neighbors yourself.
So Father, I pray, I pray over this congregation.
Father, I pray that you would begin to burn a love for our neighbor inside each one of us.
Father, if there's strange relationships, I pray for healing.
If there's people that need to have reconciliation, I pray that you would bring that, Father.
Father, I pray that you would help Maria Temple be a place where people find hope and healing.
Because good neighbors stepped out.
Stepped out of their comfort zone and out of the four walls of their homes and of their church.
And they met people where they are.
They were willing to go to the hard places and to have hard conversations.
Father, do a mighty work.
We praise You, and we thank You.
It's in the name of Jesus, we pray.
Amen.